---
title: "Singe step fabrication of tungsten nitride-based electrode for the supercapacitor application"
collection: presentations
type: "presentation"
permalink: /talks/2021-12-2-tutorial-1
venue: "International Conference on Advanced Materials and Mechanical Characterization"
date: 2021-12-2
location: "IIT Roorkee, Uttrakhand, India"
---

Transition metal nitrides-based thin-film supercapacitors are attracting researchers around the globe owing to their high-class electrochemical performances, good sustainability, and considerable voltage window. The present work presents the single-step fabrication of tungsten nitride (WN) on a stainless steel-304A (SS) wafer for highly efficient symmetric supercapacitor (SC)  applications. The reactive sputtering technique is used to deposite the metal nitrides in aron and nirogen (Ar/N2) environment. The SC is fabricated using WN@SS as the working electrode. All the electrochemical studies are performed in aqueous electrolyte at different current densities and scan rates. The structural, morphological, and crystallographic characterizations of the electrode are also performed. The WN@SS electrode-based symmetric supercapacitor demonstrated in this work show exceptional  electrochemical stability and capacitive performance, broader voltage window, good adhesion, and excellent cycle life. Owing to these interesting properties, the proposed SC can be considered as a promising candidate toward the fabrication of energy storage devices.

Keywords: Sputtering, Thin film, Supercapacitor, Electrochemical studies